[Music]
speak to all the congregation of the
children of Israel and say to them you
shall be holy for I the Lord your God am
holy every one of you shall Revere his
mother and his father and keep my
Sabbath's I am the Lord your God do not
turn to idols nor make for yourselves
molded gods I am the Lord your God and
if you offer a sacrifice of a peace
offering to the Lord
you shall offer it of your own free will
it shall be eaten the same day you offer
it and on the next day and if any
remains until the third day it shall be
burned in the fire and if it is eaten at
all on the third day it is an
abomination it shall not be accepted
therefore everyone who eats it shall
bear his iniquity because he has
profaned the hallowed offering of the
Lord and that person shall be cut off
from his people when you reap the
harvest of your land you shall not
wholly reap the corners of your field
nor shall you gather the gleanings of
your harvest and you shall not clean
your vineyard nor shall you gather every
grape of your vineyard you shall leave
them for the poor and the stranger I am
the Lord your God you shall not steal
nor deal falsely nor lie to one another
and you shall not swear by my name
falsely nor shall you profane the name
of your God
I am the Lord
you shall not cheat your neighbor nor
rob him the wages of him who is hired
shall not remain with you all night
until morning you shall not curse the
death nor put a stumbling block before
the blind but shall fear your God I am
the Lord you shall do no injustice in
judgment you shall not be partial to the
poor nor honor the person of the mighty
in righteousness you shall judge your
neighbor you shall not go about as a
tail bearer among your people nor shall
you take a stand against the life of
your neighbor I am the Lord you shall
not hate your brother in your heart you
shall surely rebuke your neighbor and
not bear sin because of him you shall
not take vengeance nor bear any grudge
against the children of your people but
you shall love your neighbor as yourself
I am the Lord you shall keep my statutes
you shall not let your livestock breed
with another kind you shall not sow your
field with mixed seed nor shall a
garment of mixed linen and wool come
upon you whoever lies carnally with a
woman who is betrothed to a man as a
concubine and who has not at all been
redeemed nor given her freedom for this
there shall be scourging but they shall
not be put to death because she was not
free and he shall bring his trespass
offering to the Lord to the door of the
tabernacle of meeting a ram as a
trespass offering the priest shall make
atonement for him with the RAM of the
trespass offering before the Lord for
his sin which he has committed
and thus in which he has committed shall
be forgiven him when you come into the
land and have planted all kinds of trees
for food then you shall count their
fruit as uncircumcised 3 years it shall
be as uncircumcised to you it shall not
be eaten but in the fourth year all its
fruit shall be holy a praise to the Lord
and in the fifth year you may eat its
fruit that it may yield to you its
increase I am the Lord your God you
shall not eat anything with the blood
nor shall you practice divination or
soothsaying
you shall not shave around the sides of
your head nor shall you disfigure the
edges of your beard you shall not make
any cuttings in your flesh for the dead
nor tattoo any marks on you I am the
lord do not prostitute your daughter to
cause her to be a harlot lest the land
fall into harlotry and the land become
full of wickedness you shall keep my
Sabbath's and reverence my century I am
the Lord
give no regard to mediums and familiar
spirits do not seek after them to be
defiled by them I am the Lord your God
you shall rise before the grey-headed
and honor the presence of an old man and
fear your God I am the Lord and if a
stranger dwells with you in your land
you shall not mistreat him the stranger
who dwells among you shall be to you as
one born among you and you shall love
him as yourself for you were strangers
in the land of Egypt I am the Lord your
God you shall do no injustice in
judgment in measurement of length weight
or volume
you shall have honest scales honest
weights an honest Aoife and an honest I
am the Lord your God who brought you out
of the land of Egypt therefore you shall
observe all my statutes and all my
judgments and perform them